---
  layout: post
  title: Clank 0.2 released
  date: 2013-11-27 17:11:00 GMT+1
  published: true
---

There's a new Clank release. It was a bit quiet on the iOS prototyping front but a new project kicked me back into action.

A lot is going on in this release:

* More components: we have added more components so it's easier to prototype for **the iPad** and **iOS7**.
* Behind the scenes is a better repository structure: the single Clank repository on Github has been split in 3 repositories: one for Clank itself, one for the documentation and a starter project using Jekyll.

You can view a demo video of the current state on Clank here:

[Make a video of a Clank app]

### Added

* Added a new tab bar component. See documentation.
* Added a new badge component. See documentation.
* Added a new popover component. This popover can be "spawned" from headers and footers. See the documentation.
  * The popovers require the use of [jquery.extendedinput.js](https://github.com/Wolfr/jquery.extendedinput), a jQuery plugin to easily show and hide items.
* Added font generation for 3 separate icon fonts (one for iOS, one for Android and once for the app itself)

### Modified

* Many styles have been iOS7-ified. I came to terms with the iOS7 look after hating it at first. Turns out it's not so bad after all.
  * This release is very much iOS7 focussed so if you want to build an Android + iPhone app you are going to have a lot of work making the Android components look Android-y. This is a known issue and we will actively be working on giving Android the necessary attention.
* Z-indexes are now listed in the variables list (`_vars.scss`) for a birds eye view (similar to Twitter Bootstrap)
* The loading spinner was modernized, now a circle instead of a traditional spinner

### Regressions

Unfortunately there are are a lot of regressions in this release. Clank is not a mature framework yet, many things will change around in releases.

One cause of regressions is that I rid of the BEM syntax since I found it confusing. This has caused some class renaming, for instance:

* .cl-view-all was renamed .cl-table-view-btn
* .cl-table__extended was renamed to .cl-table-extended 

### Ideas on how to fit Android 4.x styles in?

I am unhappy about not giving enough attention to Android. I want Clank to be usable for cross-platform web applications.

Some steps will have to be taken to stop iOS (the dominant platform for me) from taking over. Here's some ideas:

* Generate a separate Android stylesheet and load that when an Android device is selected
* Rewrite most components to look Android style (CSS) while retaining similar markup
* Add Android type headers with overflow and dropdowns

Feel free to voice your thoughts in [the relevant Github issue](https://github.com/Wolfr/clank/issues/87).

## The future (0.3 and later)

I am working with a developer to make [page transitions](https://github.com/Wolfr/clank/issues/31) a reality.
