---
  layout: post
  title: Clank 0.3.6
  date: 2013-12-21 15:31:00 GMT+1
  published: true
---

Over the past few months, a lot of improvements have been added to <a href="https://github.com/Wolfr/clank">Clank</a>.

These are the major ones:

* **Make it clearer how to use Clank**: if you download Clank now and open the index.html file it's clearer how to get started
* **More components**: we have added more components so it's easier to prototype for **the iPad** and **iOS7**. A lot of components have been iOS7-ified to fit in with expectations on what a modern prototype should look like.
* Animation: we added a method to animate between screens. If you're curious check out this <a href="http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2n1Ue7N1BCc&feature=youtu.be">YouTube video</a>. This is an undocumented feature and still a work in progress. If you're feeling adventurous check out `animation.html` in the master branch.

<div class="video-wrapper">
  <iframe src="//www.youtube.com/embed/2n1Ue7N1BCc" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</div>

You might be wondering what is going on with the versions. Clank started in June this year with a 0.1 release. The planned 0.2 release never happened, and now we suddenly have 0.3.6. I'm sorry for the confusion and aim to make releases more logical in the future. There is a better project structure in place to make it easier to work with Clank.


### Full changelog

#### Repo organisation

* The single Clank repository on Github has been split in 3 repositories: one for Clank itself, one for the documentation and a starter project using Jekyll.
* Clank is now a bower component that is versioned using <a href="http://semver.org/">semantic versioning</a>.

#### Added

* Added a new tab bar (and badge) component. See <a href="/demos/tab-bar.html">the demo</a>.
* Added a new popover component (<a href="/demos/popover.html">demo</a>). This popover can be "spawned" from headers and footers.
* Added font generation for 3 separate icon fonts (one for iOS, one for Android and once for the app itself)

#### Modified

* Many styles have been iOS7-ified. I came to terms with the iOS7 look after hating it at first. Turns out it's not so bad after all.
  * This release is very much iOS7 focussed so if you want to build an Android + iPhone app you are going to have a lot of work making the Android components look Android-y. This is a known issue and we will actively be working on giving Android the necessary attention. An alternative path we are considering is letting go of emulating platform styles completely and integrate <a href="http://twitter.com/bootstrap">Bootstrap 3</a> and build (mobile friendly) plugins around that ecosystem.
* Z-indexes are now listed in the variables list (`_vars.scss`) for a birds eye view (similar to Twitter Bootstrap)
* The loading spinner was modernized, now a circle instead of a traditional spinner

#### Regressions

Unfortunately there are are a lot of regressions in this release - in fact, too many to list. Clank is not a mature framework yet, many things will change around in releases. One cause of regressions is that I rid of the BEM syntax since I found it confusing. This has caused some class renaming, for instance:

* .cl-view-all was renamed .cl-table-view-btn
* .cl-table__extended was renamed to .cl-table-extended